"Food Environment Atlas." USDA ERS - Food Environment Atlas, 2018, www.ers.usda.gov/data-products/food-environment-atlas/data-access-and-documentation-downloads/

The purpose of this data analysis was to find a model that resulted in the lowest test MSE, while simultaneously informing the reader about what factors have the most importance in determining the percentage of the population that participates in the SNAP benefit program. This data set consists of Demographic, Socioeconomic and local data taken from counties by the United States Department of Agriculture. Variables such as the Percentage of population that identifies as Hispanic, the Percentage of population that identifies as White, the Percentage of population 65 or older, and the child poverty rate per county are examples of the predictor variables included in this data set.The response variable is the percentage of the population that participates in the SNAP benefit program. There are a total of 3,143 observations and 13 numeric predictor variables. In the initial stages of the modeling process, I removed 6 variables and conducted a CART imputation technique to remove missing values over 5 iterations. I began a tree building process, starting with a single tree, followed by bagged trees and finally a random forest. The random forest resulted in the lowest  test MSE of 5.35 and the most variability explained, around 47.6%. In addition, many of the variables that were important in the bagged model also showed importance in the random forest. PCT_NHBLACK10, percentage of the population that identifies as Black, CHILDPOVRATE15, Child Poverty Rate, PCT_HISP10, percentage of the population that identifies as Hispanic, and REDEMP_SNAPS16, number of SNAP dollars per store per county were the four most important variables found in the random forest. In addition, after analyzing partial dependence plots, I concluded that changes in child poverty rates greatly affect the response variable, the percentage of SNAP participants per county. The impact from Percentage of Residents that Identify as Black are not as apparent as the child poverty rate, but there is still a slight increase in the percentage of SNAP program participants as the percentage increases. The impact from Percentage of Residents that are 65 or older are very drastic. There is a very steep decrease in the response variable as the percentage of the county population that is 65 or older increases. This reinforces the notion of importance of these variables in the model. This analysis was illuminating in terms of some of the factors that are related to a higher percentage of residents who participate in SNAP program. Larger percentages of residents who identify as Black and Hispanic, along with higher child poverty rates have a significant impact on the percentage of residents involved in the SNAP program. 
